Elemez is a real time analytics solution for business critical mobile devices. This was the product I spent the majority of my time working on while at B2M Solutions and it was at the forefront of a new and exciting emerging mobile enterprise analytics market. Nothing like this had been done before. It’s been utilised by a huge number of sectors such as warehousing, logistics, retail, healthcare, medical and the aviation industry.

My involvement over the 5 years I worked on Elemez was enhancing it further, adding advanced features like  Barcode Scanning analytics, data collection from Smart Batteries, WLAN location tracking and drop detection. I implemented a huge number of features and fixes on the on-device agent, running on Android, Windows CE, Windows x86 and even iOS. I was full stack so not only contributed to device-side code but also to the front end dashboards and backend logic including the REST API which was later overhauled to add a GraphQL based API. Data was stored in a combination of DynamoDB, S3 and Elasticsearch and depending on its access and performance requirements.

We applied rigorous software engineering standards and practices, including TDD, 100% test code coverage, suites of integration, acceptance and smoke tests on every platform, including Mobile. This was the project were I discovered just how powerful it was to do things to a high standard. Taking the time to add this extra layer of resilience was so worthwhile and saved us a lot of pain when creating and expanding this complex and cutting edge product.
